The Diaplexis library consists of approximately 24,000 lines of C++ code, written with the
goal of exploring the numerical dynamics of a combinatorial spacetime model based on a ramified or
multi-sheeted simplicial complex. Compiling this library requires a modern C++ compiler as well as
the [Synarmosma library](http://www.synarmosma.org/software/synarmosma/). The library includes both
the standard multi-sheeted version of the library (Polyphyllon) and a simpler but faster version that
assumes the entire spacetime complex exists on a single sheet (Monophyllon). This repository comes
with an older version of the library, in the <code>old</code> directory, which uses a slower and
significantly less robust representation of the ubiquity of the spacetime's _n_-simplices; its interest
is now purely historical. The Diaplexis library requires the [PugiXML library](http://www.pugixml.org)
for XML processing, used for reading the parameter file and writing the log files. While not necessary
for the library's compilation, an installation of the [GraphViz](https://www.graphviz.org) software is
recommended for visualizing the combinatorial topology of the spacetime. The Diaplexis library is released
under the Gnu Public License version 3.0; see the <code>LICENSE.txt</code> file or the
[Free Software Foundation](https://www.fsf.org/licensing) for details.

To compile the Diaplexis library, simply type the command <code>make</code> from the current directory; the
command <code>make install</code> will install the library in the location which is specified by <code>INSTALL_DIR</code>
in the <code>Makefile.config</code> file. This same file contains other parameters for controlling the compilation
which you may modify if needed. The compilation of the Diaplexis library has been developed and tested in a Linux
environment (with x86, x86-64 and ARMv6 processor architectures), using both the GNU and Intel C++ compilers. In
principle it should also run under Windows using the Cygwin environment. Finally, you can use <code>make clean</code>
to delete all the object files.

Normally the only parameters that a user should need to modify in order to build the Diaplexis library
are located in the <code>Makefile.config</code> file, in which various compiler arguments and libraries are
specified. The build variables are all described in the Makefile and in general the default values should
be safe on most Unix-like platforms. A sample program file, <code>euplecton.cxx</code>, illustrating the
use of the Spacetime class is also included in the <code>examples</code> directory along with two examples
of an XML parameter file, the first for restarting the program from a binary diskfile and the second for 
general use with the Polyphyllon version of this library. Using the included <code>examples/Makefile</code>, 
a binary can be compiled for either version of the Diaplexis library by means of the command 
<code>make TYPE=MONOPHYLLON</code> or <code>make TYPE=POLYPHYLLON</code> (the default). Running 
<code>./euplecton parameters.xml</code> represents a simple test to verify the installation, which
writes all its output in the <code>data</code> directory. The environment variable <code>OMP_NUM_THREADS</code>
can be set to a value greater than one to test the parallel performance of the library. The <code>examples</code>
directory also contains two Python 3 files, one named <code>musical_hyphansis.py</code> which uses the
[music21](http://web.mit.edu/music21/) module to convert a score file in the [MusicXML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MusicXML)
format into a plain text file whose structure is adapted for use by the Diaplexis library and can be used 
in the parameter <code>HyphansisScore</code>. The second Python script, <code>editor.py</code>, provides a 
portable graphical interface based on [Tkinter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tkinter) for editing the XML 
parameter files used by the Diaplexis library, which has the advantage of making clear which parameters are 
relevant given choices for values like the <code>InitialState</code> and <code>SolverType</code>.

The <code>VERBOSE</code> compilation flag causes the Diaplexis library to write a great deal of diagnostic
logging information to the standard output during execution and is normally only useful for developers.
That said, with this flag users can have access to a wealth of information about the library's reasoning
process for the hyphantic operators that are used, information which does not appear in the log file
created by the normal execution of the library. The quantity of output which is generated by this flag
is however sufficiently large that users should redirect the standard output to a disk file for post-execution
study. The source code contains OpenMP directives that are active when a C++ compiler with support for OpenMP
is used for the compilation, assumed to be compatible with the OpenMP 3.1 standard. Both of the branches of
the Diaplexis library are documented using [Doxygen](https://www.doxygen.nl/), for which there is a pair of
configuration files, <code>docs-monophyllon.config</code> and <code>docs-polyphyllon.config</code>, in the
<code>documentation</code> directory which can be modified if desired. It is however sufficient to use the
command <code>make docs</code> to create a set of HTML documents that will be installed in the 
<code>documentation/polyphyllon</code> and <code>documentation/monophyllon</code> directories.

For any questions, comments or suggestions, please contact <info@synarmosma.org>
